workshop/content/exercises/D-04-content.md, before:

## Automate image update deployments

Any update to the manifests will be detected by ArgoCD.
However, we don't currently have an mechanism in place to update the manifests when a new app image is available.
This problem can be solved in different ways.
In this workshop, we are going to use a tool called [ArgoCD Image Updater](https://argocd-image-updater.readthedocs.io/en/stable).

**How does it work?**

ArgoCD Image Updater polls the container registry, and when it finds a new image, it updates the ops git repo.
To avoid conflict with manual updates, it writes to a separate file called .argocd-source-<app-name>.yaml (e.g. `manifests/overlays/dev/.argocd-source-dev-cat-service.yaml`).

The file contents might look something like this:
```yaml
kustomize:
  images:
  - my-registry.io/cat-service:b1.20210702.035806
```

At this point, ArgoCD will detect the change to the ops repo and re-apply the manifests.

### Install ArgoCD Image Updater

Install argocd-image-updater to the kubernetes cluster.
```execute-1
kubectl apply -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd -f ~/cat-service-release-ops/tooling/argocd-image-updater/install.yaml
```

You can use the following command to validate that the installation has completed.
```execute-1
kubectl rollout status deploy/argocd-image-updater -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

In case you need to troubleshoot, set logging to debug (the default is info).
```execute-1
yq eval '.data."log.level" = "debug"' \
     <(kubectl get cm argocd-image-updater-config -o yaml -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd) \
     | kubectl apply -f -
```

### Additional configuration

#### Provide ArgoCD API access to ArgoCD Image Updater

ArgoCD Image Updater works in tandem with ArgoCD.
It needs to talk to the ArgoCD API.

Hence, you need to create an account for ArgoCD Image Updater in ArgoCD with proper RBAC permissions and an API token.
You also need to provide the API token to ArgoCD Image Updater via a Kubernetes secret.

Let's do this now.

Create a new account in ArgoCD called "image-updater" and grant it the "apiKey" capability.
This capability allows generating authentication tokens for API access.
```execute-1
yq eval '.data."accounts.image-updater" = "apiKey"' \
     <(kubectl get cm argocd-cm -o yaml -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd) \
     | kubectl apply -f -
```

Create roles for new account.
You can add RBAC permissions to Argo CD's argocd-rbac-cm ConfigMap and Argo CD will pick them up automatically.

```execute-1
kubectl apply -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd -f tooling/argocd-image-updater-config/argocd-rbac-cm.yaml
```

Generate the API token.
You can do this using the `argocd` CLI.
```execute-1
alias argocd="argocd --port-forward --port-forward-namespace argocd"

argocd login --username admin --password $ARGOCD_PW

ARGOCD_API_TOKEN=$(argocd account generate-token \
                         --account image-updater \
                         --id image-updater)
```

Create a secret from the token generated above.
```execute-1
kubectl create secret generic argocd-image-updater-secret \
    --from-literal argocd.token=$ARGOCD_API_TOKEN \
    --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f - -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

Restart the argocd-image-updater pod.
```execute-1
kubectl rollout restart deployment argocd-image-updater -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

#### Provide GitHub write access to ArgoCD Image Updater

ArgoCD Image Updater needs to push tag updates to the `cat-service-release-ops` repo when it detects new images.
This means you also need to provide a GitHub access token to ArgoCD Image Updater via a Kubernetes secret.
You can use the token you set in the GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable earlier in the workshop.

Create a secret to enable ArgoCD Image Updater to push to your GitHub ops repository.
```execute-1
kubectl create secret generic gitcred \
    --from-literal=username=$GITHUB_USER \
    --from-literal=password=$GITHUB_TOKEN \
    -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

### Enable monitoring for the `cat-service` dev and prod applications

To enable ArgoCD Image Updater to monitor a registry for new images, you need to configure the corresponding application resource with a particular set of annotations.

The dev and prod ArgoCD application manifests actually already contain these annotations. Let's review them now.

Open the dev application manifest.
```editor:select-matching-text
file: ~/cat-service-release-ops/deploy/argocd-app-dev.yaml
text: `annotations:`
after: 5
```

The annotations tell ArgoCD Image Updater to find the most recently published `cat-service` image whose tag matches the specified regular expression, and to update the ops repo usign the git crendentials in the "gitcred" secret.

> Note: If you want to disable ArgoCD Image Updater from monitoring this image, you can delete all of the annotations or simply uncomment the one that sets ignore-tages to "*".

The prod application has the same configuration.

Since this configuration is already in place, ArgoCD Image Updater will start to monitor the container registry right away.

Commit message:

remove k apply of install.yaml or release.yaml for kpack, argocd, argocd image updater

workshop/content/exercises/D-04-content.md, after:

## Automate image update deployments

Any update to the manifests will be detected by ArgoCD.
However, we don't currently have an mechanism in place to update the manifests when a new app image is available.
This problem can be solved in different ways.
In this workshop, we are going to use a tool called [ArgoCD Image Updater](https://argocd-image-updater.readthedocs.io/en/stable).

**How does it work?**

ArgoCD Image Updater polls the container registry, and when it finds a new image, it updates the ops git repo.
To avoid conflict with manual updates, it writes to a separate file called .argocd-source-<app-name>.yaml (e.g. `manifests/overlays/dev/.argocd-source-dev-cat-service.yaml`).

The file contents might look something like this:
```yaml
kustomize:
  images:
  - my-registry.io/cat-service:b1.20210702.035806
```

At this point, ArgoCD will detect the change to the ops repo and re-apply the manifests.

### Review ArgoCD Image Updater installation

Again, because this tutorial hosts many sessions in a single cluster, Argo CD Image Updater has already been installed.
If you are interested in installation instructions, read [this](https://argocd-image-updater.readthedocs.io/en/stable/install/start/#installing-as-kubernetes-workload-in-argo-cd-namespace).

ArgoCD does not add any CRDs to the cluster.

### Additional configuration

#### Provide ArgoCD API access to ArgoCD Image Updater

ArgoCD Image Updater works in tandem with ArgoCD.
It needs to talk to the ArgoCD API.

Hence, you need to create an account for ArgoCD Image Updater in ArgoCD with proper RBAC permissions and an API token.
You also need to provide the API token to ArgoCD Image Updater via a Kubernetes secret.

Let's do this now.

Create a new account in ArgoCD called "image-updater" and grant it the "apiKey" capability.
This capability allows generating authentication tokens for API access.
```execute-1
yq eval '.data."accounts.image-updater" = "apiKey"' \
     <(kubectl get cm argocd-cm -o yaml -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd) \
     | kubectl apply -f -
```

Create roles for new account.
You can add RBAC permissions to Argo CD's argocd-rbac-cm ConfigMap and Argo CD will pick them up automatically.

```execute-1
kubectl apply -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd -f tooling/argocd-image-updater-config/argocd-rbac-cm.yaml
```

Generate the API token.
You can do this using the `argocd` CLI.
```execute-1
alias argocd="argocd --port-forward --port-forward-namespace argocd"

argocd login --username admin --password $ARGOCD_PW

ARGOCD_API_TOKEN=$(argocd account generate-token \
                         --account image-updater \
                         --id image-updater)
```

Create a secret from the token generated above.
```execute-1
kubectl create secret generic argocd-image-updater-secret \
    --from-literal argocd.token=$ARGOCD_API_TOKEN \
    --dry-run=client -o yaml | kubectl apply -f - -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

Restart the argocd-image-updater pod.
```execute-1
kubectl rollout restart deployment argocd-image-updater -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

#### Provide GitHub write access to ArgoCD Image Updater

ArgoCD Image Updater needs to push tag updates to the `cat-service-release-ops` repo when it detects new images.
This means you also need to provide a GitHub access token to ArgoCD Image Updater via a Kubernetes secret.
You can use the token you set in the GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable earlier in the workshop.

Create a secret to enable ArgoCD Image Updater to push to your GitHub ops repository.
```execute-1
kubectl create secret generic gitcred \
    --from-literal=username=$GITHUB_USER \
    --from-literal=password=$GITHUB_TOKEN \
    -n $SESSION_NAMESPACE-argocd
```

### Enable monitoring for the `cat-service` dev and prod applications

To enable ArgoCD Image Updater to monitor a registry for new images, you need to configure the corresponding application resource with a particular set of annotations.

The dev and prod ArgoCD application manifests actually already contain these annotations. Let's review them now.

Open the dev application manifest.
```editor:select-matching-text
file: ~/cat-service-release-ops/deploy/argocd-app-dev.yaml
text: `annotations:`
after: 5
```

The annotations tell ArgoCD Image Updater to find the most recently published `cat-service` image whose tag matches the specified regular expression, and to update the ops repo usign the git crendentials in the "gitcred" secret.

> Note: If you want to disable ArgoCD Image Updater from monitoring this image, you can delete all of the annotations or simply uncomment the one that sets ignore-tages to "*".

The prod application has the same configuration.

Since this configuration is already in place, ArgoCD Image Updater will start to monitor the container registry right away.
